Basic Validation Rules
// required:
// The field under validation must be present in the input data and not be empty.

// min:value:
// The field under validation must have a minimum value. (done for int)
maybe do for float or string as well? or auto recognize the data type from string?

Strings: Minimum number of characters.
Arrays: Minimum number of items.
Files: Minimum size in kilobytes.
Numbers: Minimum value.
// max:value:
The field under validation must not exceed a maximum value.

Strings: Maximum number of characters.
Arrays: Maximum number of items.
Files: Maximum size in kilobytes.
Numbers: Maximum value.
between:min,max:
The field under validation must have a size (string, file, array, number) between the given min and max.

// size:value:
The field under validation must have an exact size.

Strings: Exact number of characters.
Arrays: Exact number of items.
Files: Exact size in kilobytes.
Numbers: Exact value.
// in:foo,bar,...:
The field under validation must be included in the given list of values.

not_in:foo,bar,...:
The field under validation must not be included in the given list of values.

String Validation Rules
string:
The field under validation must be a string.

// email:
The field under validation must be a valid email address.

// url:
The field under validation must be a valid URL.

// regex:pattern:
The field under validation must match the given regular expression.

//uuid:
The field under validation must be a valid UUID.

alpha:
The field under validation must only contain alphabetic characters.

alpha_num:
The field under validation must only contain alphanumeric characters.

alpha_dash:
The field under validation may only contain letters, numbers, dashes, and underscores.

starts_with:foo,bar,...:
The field under validation must start with one of the given values.

ends_with:foo,bar,...:
The field under validation must end with one of the given values.

Numeric Validation Rules
// numeric:
The field under validation must be a number.

// integer:
The field under validation must be an integer.

digits:value:
The field under validation must be a number with the exact length.

digits_between:min,max:
The field under validation must be a number with a length between the given min and max.

decimal:min,max:
The field under validation must be a number with at least min decimal places and not exceeding max decimal places.

Date Validation Rules
//date:
The field under validation must be a valid date.

before:date:
The field under validation must be a date before the given date.

after:date:
The field under validation must be a date after the given date.

date_equals:date:
The field under validation must be equal to the given date.

date_format:format:
The field under validation must match the given date format.

File Validation Rules
file:
The field under validation must be a file.

image:
The field under validation must be an image (jpeg, png, bmp, gif, svg, or webp).

mimes:foo,bar,...:
The field under validation must have a MIME type corresponding to one of the listed extensions.

mimetypes:foo,bar,...:
The field under validation must match one of the given MIME types.

dimensions:
The field under validation must be an image meeting the dimension constraints as specified.

Array Validation Rules
array:
The field under validation must be an array.

distinct:
The field under validation must not contain duplicate values.

Other Validation Rules
// boolean:
The field under validation must be a boolean (true, false, 1, 0).

confirmed:
The field under validation must have a matching field with the _confirmation suffix.

nullable:
The field under validation can be null.

json:
The field under validation must be a valid JSON string.

ip:
The field under validation must be a valid IP address.

ipv4:
The field under validation must be a valid IPv4 address.

ipv6:
The field under validation must be a valid IPv6 address.

required_if:anotherfield,value,...:
The field under validation must be present if the specified field is equal to any of the given values.

required_unless:anotherfield,value,...:
The field under validation must be present unless the specified field is equal to any of the given values.

required_with:foo,bar,...:
The field under validation must be present if any of the other specified fields are present.

required_without:foo,bar,...:
The field under validation must be present when any of the other specified fields are not present.

required_with_all:foo,bar,...:
The field under validation must be present if all of the other specified fields are present.

required_without_all:foo,bar,...:
The field under validation must be present when none of the other specified fields are present.

same:field:
The field under validation must have the same value as the given field.

Conditional Validation Rules
exists:table,column:
The field under validation must exist in a given database table.

unique:table,column:
The field under validation must be unique in a given database table.

sometimes:
The field under validation is only validated if present in the input array.